DOCS-1986-typha-felix-metrics (#1158)
tigera/docs: calico-enterprise/operations/monitor/metrics/recommended-metrics.mdx

---
description: Recommended Prometheus metrics for monitoring Calico Enterprise components.
---

# Recommended Prometheus metrics to monitor

## Big picture

Monitor the {{prodname}} Typha, Felix, and policy component metrics to ensure optimal cluster operation.

## Concepts

> {{prodname}} Typha, Felix, and policy components are the most critical to monitor because they are responsible for ensuring networking and security functions are up-to-date and working as expected.

Reviewer: Think you're missing  important signposts here; to make this doc actionable, the user needs to know how to connect Prometheus to the endpoints that serve these metrics.  They also need to know that there are multiple metrics endpoints, each with their own configuration:

* Felix has its "core" metrics, these monitor Felix itself.
* Felix has a second policy metrics endpoint (on a separate port).
* I think there's another metrics endpoint for BGP stats.
* Typha is a separate app with its own metrics endpoint.

I think anyone trying to follow this guide would struggle to find the various metrics ports and connect to them without signposts.

Author: We have this old doc here that should probably rewritten to provide a better overview of all metrics. But that is outside the scope of this ticket. For now, I've added your points to Concepts. 

https://deploy-preview-1158--calico-docs-preview-next.netlify.app/calico-enterprise/next/operations/monitor/metrics/policy-metrics.

> ### Typha

Reviewer: This doc is very long, perhaps typha should have a completely separate page?

Author: Perhaps when the rest of the section is rewritten. For now, I'd like to leave it together.

Threshold values for each metric depend on the cluster size and churn rate. Threshold recommendations are provided where possible, but because each cluster is different, and metrics can depend on cluster churn rate and scale, we recommend that you baseline the cluster to establish numbers that represent normal figures for your cluster.

:::note

Investigate metrics that start increasing rapidly from the baseline set.

:::

## Metrics

**Policy**
- [Policy metrics](#policy-metrics)

**Typha**
- [Typha general metrics](#typha-general-metrics)
- [Typha cluster mesh metrics](#typha-cluster-mesh-metrics)
- [Typha client metrics](#typha-client-metrics)
- [Typha cache internals](#typha-cache-internals)
- [Typha snapshot details](#typha-snapshot-details)

**Felix**
- [Felix cluster state metrics](#felix-cluster-state-metrics)
- [Felix error metrics](#felix-error-metrics)
- [Felix time-based metrics](#felix-time-based-metrics)

## Policy metrics

### Denied traffic

| Denied traffic                   |                                                              |
| -------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |

> | Metric                           | *calico_denied_packets / calico_denied_bytes*                |

Reviewer: I checked it he code and this isn't just one metric, it's actually a family of metrics so you'll get one instance of calico_denied_packets/bytes for each policy rule that's denying traffic:
```
calico_denied_packets{policy="tier1|fv/policy-1|0|deny|-1",srcIP="10.245.13.133"}
```
Presenting it as one entry makes it sound simple but it's quite a tricky one!

Author: Added note and example.

| -------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| Metric                           | *cnx_policy_rule_bytes / cnx_policy_rule_packets*            |
| Explanation                      | Number of bytes or packets handled by {{prodname}} network policy rules. |
| Threshold value recommendation   | This metric should usually be non-zero (unless expected).  A zero value indicates the rule is not matching any packets, and could be surplus to requirements. |
| Threshold breach symptoms        | N/A                                                          |
| Threshold breach recommendations | If this metric consistently reports a zero value over an acceptable time, you can consider removing the policy rule. |
| Priority Level                   | Optional.                                                    |

## Typha general metrics

### Data store cache size

| Data store cache size             |                                                              |
| -------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |

> | Metric                           | *max by (instance) <(typha_cache_size>*<br />typha_cache_size[syncer="felix"]<br/>typha_cache_size[syncer="bgp"] <br/>typha_cache_size[syncer="dpi"]<br />typha_cache_size[syncer="tbd"] |

Reviewer: A lot of the metrics are getting garbled when converted to HTML, I think they all need to be in code blocks.  Anything with a `<...>` in it gets broken by markdown because it looks like an inline HTML tag.

I feel like we're going to confuse people by presenting `max by (instance) <(typha_cache_size>` as a "metric".  It's actually a Prometheus query over the metrics.

In this case, Typha runs multiple copies of the cache, one for each client type.  So it emits multiple cach-size metrics, one for each copy.  I feel like what we should do is: explain the raw metrics and then suggest a useful query to turn the raw metrics into actionable insights.  If we just present the queries then I think users will feel like it's a non-sequitur.

Author: Changed all metrics to code block. Copied your updates from gdoc for datastore cache size.

| Threshold value recommendation   | The value of this metric will depend on the scale of the Calico Federation and will always increase as WEPs, {{prodname}} network policies, and clusters are added. It is recommended to achieve a baseline first, then monitor for any unexpected increases from the baseline. |
| Threshold breach symptoms        | Unexpected increases may indicate memory leaks and performance issues with Typha. |
| Threshold breach recommendations | Check CPU usage on Typha pods and Kubernetes nodes. Increase resources if needed, rollout and restart Typha(s) if needed. |
| Priority level                   | Optional.                                                    |

### CPU usage

> | CPU usage                        |                                                              |

Reviewer: Is there a way to merge the header cells?  A lot of the metrics tables have a very cramped top-left cell.

Author: Not an easy way (unless we get a plugin).

| -------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| Metric                           | *rate(process_cpu_seconds_total[30s]) \* 100*                |
| Explanation                      | CPU in use by Typha is represented as a percentage of a core.   |
| Threshold value recommendation   | A spike at startup is normal. It is recommended to achieve a baseline first, then monitor for any unexpected increases from this baseline. A rule of thumb is to investigate maintained CPU usage above 90%. |
| Threshold breach symptoms        | Unexpected maintained CPU usage could cause Typha to fall behind in updating its clients (e.g. Felix) and could cause delays to policy updates. |
| Threshold breach recommendations | Check CPU usage on Kubernetes nodes. Increase resources if needed, and rollout restart Typha(s) if needed |
| Priority level                   | Recommended.                                                 |

### Memory usage

| Memory usage                     |                                                              |
| -------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |

> | Metric                           | *(process_resident_memory_bytes[30s])*                   |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Metric                           | *process_resident_memory_bytes*                   |
```

| Explanation                      | Amount of memory used by Typha.                            |
| Threshold value recommendation   | It is recommended to achieve a baseline first, then monitor for any unexpected increases from this baseline. A rule of thumb is to investigate if maintained memory usage is above 90% of what is available from the underlying node. |
| Threshold breach symptoms        | Unexpected maintained memory usage could cause Typha to fall behind in updating its clients (for example, Felix) and could cause delays to policy updates. |
| Threshold breach recommendations | Check memory usage on Kubernetes nodes. Increase resources if needed, and rollout restart Typha(s) if needed. |
| Priority level                   | Recommended.                                                 |

### Typha cluster mesh metrics

The following metrics are applicable only if you have implemented cluster mesh.

Note that this metric requires a count syntax because you will have a copy of the metric per RemoteClusterConfiguration. As shown in the table, the value `2 = In Sync` reflects good connections.

> remote_cluster_connection_status[cluster="foo"] = 2

Reviewer: I think we should use code snippet formatting for these.

Also, I think the syntax for a single instance of a metric uses `{}` not `[]`.  Curly braces are for picking out a metric, square braces are for time range queries.

Author: Fixed.

| Threshold value recommendation       | When remote cluster connections are initializing, *connection_status* values will fluctuate. After the connection is established, this value should be equal to the number of remote clusters in the environment (if everything is in sync). |
| Threshold breach symptoms            | N/A<br />For out-of-sync symptoms, see the *out-of-sync* metric. |
| Threshold breach recommendations     | N/A<br />For out-of-sync recommendations, see the *out-of-sync* metric. |
| Priority level                       | Recommended.                                                 |

### Remote cluster connections (out of sync)

The following metrics are applicable only if you have implemented {{prodname}} cluster mesh.

| Remote cluster connections (out of sync) |                                                              |
| ---------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| Metric                                   | *count by (instance) (remote_cluster_connection_status != 2)* |

> | Explanation                              | Number of remote cluster connections that are **not** in sync (i.e. resyncing or failing to connect). Each remote cluster will report a *connection_status* value from the following list:<br />- 0 = Not Connected<br />- 1 = Connecting<br />- 2 = In Sync<br />- 3 = Resync in Process<br />- 4 = Config Change Restart Required |

Reviewer: Make everything except 2 bold?

Author: Fixed.

| Metric                           | *typha_connections_accepted*                                 |
| Explanation                      | Total number of connections accepted over time. This value always increases. |
| Threshold value recommendation   | A steady increase over time is normal. Counters rising after a Felix or Typha restart is also normal (as clients get rebalanced). Investigate connection counters that rise rapidly with no Felix or Typha restarts. |
| Threshold breach symptoms        | Counters rising when there are no Felix or Typha restarts, or no action that could cause restarts (an upgrade for example), could indicate unexpected Felix or Typha restarts or issues. |
| Threshold breach recommendations | Check resource usage on Typha(s) and Kubernetes nodes. Increase resources if needed. |
| Priority level                   | Optional.                                                    |

### Client connections actively streaming

| Client connections actively streaming |                                                              |
| ------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |

> | Metric                                | *sum by (instance) (typha_connections_streaming)*            |

Reviewer: This one is a sum because it has per-cache metrics too.

Author: Added note.

| Threshold value recommendation        | Compare the value for **Total Connections Accepted** and **Client Connections Actively Streaming**. The fluctuation of these values should be in sync with each other if Accepted Connections are turning into Actively Streamed connections. If there is a discrepancy, you should investigate. **Note**: As always, it is recommended to baseline the relationship between these two metrics to have a sense of what is *normal*. |
| Threshold breach symptoms             | Felix is not getting updates from Typha. {{prodname}} network policies are out of sync. |
| Threshold breach recommendations      | Check Typha and Felix logs, and rollout restart Typha(s) if needed. |
| Priority level                        | Recommended.                                                 |

### Rebalanced Client connections

| Rebalanced client connections    |                                                              |
| -------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |

> | Metric                           | *rate(typha_connections_dropped[$__rate_interval])*          |

Reviewer: I don't think rate_interval is explained?

Author: What is it?

| Explanation                      | Number of client connections dropped to rebalance and share the load across different Typhas. |

> | Threshold value recommendation   | It is normal to see this value increasing sometimes. Investigate if the connection dropped counters are rising constantly. If all Typhas are dropping connections because all Typhas believe they have too much load, this also warrants investigation. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Threshold value recommendation   | It is normal to see this value increasing if the number of connections to different Typha instances is unbalanced. Investigate if the connection dropped counters are rising constantly. If all Typhas are dropping connections because all Typhas believe they have too much load, this also warrants investigation. |
```

| Threshold breach recommendations | Ensure that the Kubernetes nodes have enough resources. |
| Priority level                   | Optional.                                                    |

### Felix graph update time quantile 0.5/0.9/0/99

| Felix graph update time seconds quantile 0.5/0.9/0.99 |                                                              |
| ----------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| Metric                                                | *felix_calc_graph_update_time_seconds{quantile="0.5"}/{quantile="0.9"}/{quantile="0.99"}* |
| Explanation                                           | Time to update the calculation graph for each data store on an update call viewed at the median, 90th percentile, and 99th percentile. The calculation graph is the Felix component that takes all the policies/workload endpoints/host endpoints information that it has received from Typha and distills it down to data plane updates that are relevant for this node. |

> | Threshold value recommendation                        | After the beginning of a day (where you typically get a large update), values should be sub 1 second (with occasional blips to 1+ seconds). Should be measured in milliseconds with the occasional blip to a second or two.  Investigate if constantly in values of seconds. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Threshold value recommendation                        | After start-of-day (where you typically get a large update), values should be sub 1 second (with occasional blips to 1+ seconds). Should be measured in milliseconds with the occasional blip to a second or two.  Investigate if constantly in values of seconds. |
```

| Threshold breach symptoms         | Typha clients could be behind in time on updates Typha is sending.  Potential symptoms include Calico Network Policies being out-of-sync                                                                                                                        |   |   |   |
| Threshold breach recommendations  | Check Typha and Felix logs and resource usage.   It is recommended to focus on Felix logs and resource usage first, as there is generally more overhead with Felix and thus more of a chance of overload. Rollout restart Typha(s) and Calico-node(s) if needed |   |   |   |
| Priority level                    | Recommended                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |   |   |   |

### 99 percentile client ping latency

| 99 Percentile client ping latency |                                                              |

> | --------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |

Reviewer: Table is malformed in the deploy preview

Author: Fixed.

| Threshold value recommendation   | As the load on Typha increases, the ratio of skip-ahead, non-blocking reads, increases.  If it approaches 100% then Typha may be overloaded (since clients only do non-blocking reads when they're behind). |
| Threshold breach symptoms        | Consistent non-blocking breadcrumbs could indicate that Typha is falling behind on information and updates contained in the data store. This will lead to Typha clients also being behind (e.g. {{prodname}} network policy object may not be current). |
| Threshold breach recommendations | Check Typha and Felix logs and resource usage.  Check if there is a lot of activity within the cluster that would cause Typha to continuously send non-blocking breadcrumbs. |
| Priority level                   | Recommended.                                                 |

> ###   updates total

Reviewer: Missing first word?

Author: Fixed.

| Data store updates total          |                                                              |
| -------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| Metric                           | *sum by (instance) (rate(typha_updates_total[30s]))*         |
| Explanation                      | The rate of updates from the data store(s). For example, updates to Pods/Nodes/Policies/etc. |
| Threshold value recommendation   | Intermittent spikes are expected.  Constant updates indicate a very busy cluster (e.g. lots of pod churn). |
| Threshold breach symptoms        | Constant updates could lead to overloaded Typhas where Typha clients could fall behind. |
| Threshold breach recommendations | Ensure Typha has enough resources to handle a very dynamic cluster. |
| Priority level                   | Optional.                                                    |

> ### Data store update skipped (no-ops)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Data store updates skipped (no-ops)
```

> | Data store update skipped (no-ops) |                                                              |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Data store updates skipped (no-ops) |                                                              |
```

| --------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| Metric                            | *sum by (instance) (rate(typha_updates_skipped[30s]))*       |
| Explanation                       | The number of updates from the data store that Typha detected were no-ops. For example, an update to a Kubernetes node resource that did not touch any values that are of interest to {{prodname}}. Such updates are not propagated to clients, which saves resources. |
| Threshold value recommendation    | N/A.                                                         |
| Threshold breach symptoms         | N/A.                                                         |
| Threshold breach recommendations  | N/A.                                                         |
| Priority level                    | Optional.                                                    |

## Typha snapshot details

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a new client connects, Typha sends the client a snapshot of the current state of its cached resources.  These metrics give insights into that process.
```

| Metric                           | *max(typha_snapshot_compressed_bytes)*                       |
| Explanation                      | The compressed size in bytes of snapshots sent from Typha to clients. |
| Threshold value recommendation   | This metric can be helpful for customers to estimate the bandwidth requirements for Felix to start. For example, if the compressed snapshot size is 20MB in size on average, and 1000 Felix/calico-nodes start-up, the bandwidth requirements could be estimated at 20GB between the pool of Typha and the set of Felixes across the network. |
| Threshold breach symptoms        | N/A.                                                         |
| Threshold breach recommendations | N/A.                                                         |
| Priority Level                   | Optional.                                                    |

## Felix cluster-state metrics

### CPU usage

| CPU usage                        |                                                              |
| -------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |

> | Metric                           | *rate(process_cpu_seconds_total[30s]) * 100*                 |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Metric                           | *rate(process_cpu_seconds_total[30s]) \* 100*                 |
```

| Threshold value recommendation   | Because {{prodname}} is a distributed system, the number of policies should be generally consistent across all nodes.  It is expected to have some skew between nodes for a short time while they sync, however, they should never be out of sync for very long. |
| Threshold breach symptoms        | If nodes are out of sync for a long time, calico-nodes may be having issues or experiencing resource contention.  Check the Errors Plot to see if there are any iptables errors reported. |
| Threshold breach recommendations | Redeploy calico-node if issues are seen, and increase resources if needed. |
| Priority level                   | Optional.                                                    |

### Felix active local policies

| Felix active local policies      |                                                              |
| -------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| Metric                           | *felix_active_local_policies*                                |
| Explanation                      | Total number of network policies deployed on a per-node basis. |

> | Threshold value recommendation   | ??                                                           |

Reviewer: There's no hard limit we can handle 1000+ active policies _but_ having 1000 active policies will impact performance, especially if there's pod churn.  Best to optimise policies by combining multiple rules into one policy and to make sure  that top-level policy selectors are being used.

Author: Added

| Threshold breach symptoms        | ??                                                           |
| Threshold breach recommendations | Redeploy calico-node if issues are seen, and increase resources if needed. |
| Priority level                   | Recommended.                                                 |

### Felix open FDS

| Felix open FDS                   |                                                              |
| -------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| Metric                           | *sum by (pod) (process_open_fds{pod=~"calico-node.*"})*      |
| Explanation                      | Total number of opened file descriptors per calico-node pod. |

> | Threshold value recommendation   | ??                                                           |

Reviewer: The threshold is `process_max_fds` , you don't want to be anywhere near the maximum.

Author: Fixed

| Threshold breach symptoms        | ??                                                           |
| Threshold breach recommendations | Redeploy calico-node if issues are seen, and increase resources if needed. |
| Priority level                   | Optional.                                                    |

### Felix resync started

| Felix resync started             |                                                              |
| -------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| Metric                           | *sum(rate(felix_resyncs_started[5m]))*                       |
| Explanation                      | Number of times that Typha has reported to Felix that it is connecting with the data store. |
| Threshold value recommendation   | Occasional resyncs are normal.  Investigate resync counters that rapidly rise. |
| Threshold breach symptoms        | Typha pods may be having issues or experiencing resource contention.  Some calico-nodes that are paired with Typha pods experiencing issues will not be able to sync with the data store. |

> | Threshold breach recommendations | Redeploy Typha, and check resource contention and network connectivity from Typha to the data store. |

Reviewer: I'd put emphasis on investigating the root cause.  Redeploying Typha in a large cluster can be extremely disruptive and it could make problem worse if typha is working fine but API server is overloaded(!)

Author: Reworded.

| Threshold breach symptoms        | {{prodname}} network policies are not up to date. Cluster nodes may be under resource contention, which may result in other _error and _seconds metrics rising.  Repeated errors could mean some persistent problem (e.g. some other process is creating iptables rules that {{prodname}} cannot decode with the version of iptables-save in use). |
| Threshold breach recommendations | See the Errors Plot graph to determine if the scope is cluster-wide or node-local.  Check calico-node logs. Check resource usage and contention on Kubernetes nodes and calico-nodes.  Add nodes/resources if needed.  If no resource contention is seen, restart calico-node and monitor. |
| Priority level                   | Optional.                                                    |

### Felix log errors

| Felix log errors                 |                                                              |
| -------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| Metric                           | *sum(rate(felix_log_errors[5m]))*                            |

> | Explanation                      | The number of times Felix fails to write out a log because the log buffer is full. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Explanation                      | The number of times Felix fails to write out a log to stdoud. |
```

| Threshold value recommendation   | Occasional errors are normal.  Investigate error counters that rapidly rise. |
| Threshold breach symptoms        | Calico-node may be under resource contention, which may result in other _errors and _seconds metrics rising. |
| Threshold breach recommendations | See the Errors Plot graph to determine if the scope is cluster-wide or node-local.  Check resource usage and contention on Kubernetes nodes and calico-nodes.  Add nodes/resources if needed.  If no resource contention is seen, restart calico-node and monitor. |
| Priority level                   | Optional.                                                    |

### Errors plot

| Errors plot                      |                                                              |
| -------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |

> | Metric                           | *rate(felix_ipset_errors[5m]) \|\| rate(felix_iptables_restore_errors[5m]) \|\| rate(felix_iptables_save_errors[5m]) \|\| rate(felix_log_errors[5m])* |

Reviewer: Not really a metric, more of a recommendation for how to monitor these metrics using a graph

Author: Changed to: Monitor metrics using a graph

| Threshold breach symptoms                  | Large time-to-apply values will cause a delay between {{prodname}} network policy commits and enforcement in the dataplane.  This is dependent on how {{prodname}} waiting for kube-proxy to release the iptables lock, which is influenced by the number of services in use. |
| Threshold breach recommendations           | Increase cluster resources and reduce the number of Kubernetes services if possible. |
| Priority level                             | Recommended.                                                 |

### Felix route table list seconds quantile 0.5/0.9/0.99

| Felix route table list seconds quantile 0.5/0.9/0.99 |                                                              |
| ---------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| Metric                                               | *felix_route_table_list_seconds{quantile="0.5"}/{quantile="0.9"}/{quantile="0.99"}* |
| Explanation                                          | Time to list all the interfaces during a resync viewed at the median, 90th percentile, and 99th percentile. |

> | Threshold value recommendation                       | Thresholds will vary depending on the number of Cali interfaces per node.  We recommend setting a baseline to determine a normal threshold value. Examples of what has been seen in the field: <br />- <100 cali interfaces averages sub-second<br />- >250 cali interfaces (we expect values in seconds) |

Reviewer: Think this should be better in recent releases, I fixed the slowness issue that affected larger nodes.

Author: Not sure what to change unless we can update the field results.

| Threshold breach symptoms                            | High values indicate high CPU usage in Felix and slow data plane updates. |
| Threshold breach recommendations                     | Increase cluster resources.  Reduce the number of Cali interfaces per node where possible. |
| Priority level                                       | Optional.                                                    |

> ### Felix graph update time seconds quantile 0.5/0.9/0.99

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Felix calculation graph update time seconds quantile 0.5/0.9/0.99
```

Typha is a caching datastore proxy that sits between calico-nodes and Kubernetes API Server. Its primary function is to allow for increased cluster scale by reducing the load on Kubernetes API Server. Without Typha, large clusters (200+ nodes) would need a considerable amount of memory to correspond to the continuous watches and requests from calico-nodes running in the cluster.

Typha maintains a single datastore connection on behalf of all of its clients (processes running in the calico-node pods, with Felix being Typhas’ main client). Typha watches for node, pod, network policy, bgp configuration, and other events on the Kubernetes API Server, caches and deduplicates this data, and fans out these events to its clients.

### Felix

Felix is a component of calico-node and is responsible for {{prodname}} network policy.
Felix must be continuously in sync with the datastore to ensure the correct set of policies are applied to the node it is running on.

![Typha-felix](/img/calico-enterprise/typha-felix.png)

### About metrics

Each {{prodname}} component that you want to connect to Prometheus for endpoint metrics has its own configuration (bgp, license, policy, felix, and typha).

> Note that Felix is a separate application with metric endpoints, its own core metrics to monitor itself, and a separate port for a second policy metric endpoint.

Reviewer: I think we need a guide that explains how to connect to each of these metrics ports.  How is a user supposed to get from this doc to having a working prometheus set-up that is polling the correct ports?

Author: I've added docs backlog ticket.

- Metrics that start increasing rapidly from the baseline set need attention.

**Policy**
- [{{prodname}} policy metrics](#calico-enterprise-policy-metrics)

**Typha**
- [Typha general metrics](#typha-general-metrics)
- [Typha cluster mesh metrics](#typha-cluster-mesh-metrics)
- [Typha client metrics](#typha-client-metrics)
- [Typha cache internals](#typha-cache-internals)
- [Typha snapshot details](#typha-snapshot-details)

**Felix**
- [Felix cluster state metrics](#felix-cluster-state-metrics)
- [Felix error metrics](#felix-error-metrics)
- [Felix time-based metrics](#felix-time-based-metrics)

## Policy metrics

### Denied traffic

| Denied traffic                   |                                                              |
| -------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| Metric                           | <code>calico_denied_packets<br />calico_denied_bytes</code>  |

> | Example value                    | <code>calico_denied_packets{***endpoint***="calico-metrics-port", **instance**="ip-10-0-1-30.ca-central-1.compute.internal", **job**="calico-node-metrics", **namespace**="calico-system", **pod**="calico-node-6pcqm", **policy**="default</code> |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Example value                    | <code>calico_denied_packets{***endpoint***="calico-metrics-port", **instance**="ip-10-0-1-30.ca-central-1.compute.internal", **job**="calico-node-metrics", **namespace**="calico-system", **pod**="calico-node-6pcqm", **policy**="default"}</code> |
```

| Explanation                      | Number connections handled by {{prodname}} policy rules.              |
| Threshold value recommendation   | This metric is similar to *Traffic per Rule* but this deals more with **flow** monitoring. This metric should usually be non-zero. A zero value indicates that the rule is not matching any packets and could be surplus to requirements. |
| Threshold breach symptoms        | N/A                                                          |
| Threshold breach recommendations | If this metrics consistently reports a zero value over an acceptable period of time, this policy rule can be considered for removal. |
| Priority Level                   | Optional.                                                    |

## Typha general metrics

### Datastore cache size

| Datastore cache size             |                                                              |
| -------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |

> | Metric                           | **Individual syncer values**:<br /><code>max by (instance) (typha_cache_size{syncer="bgp"})</code> <br /><code>max by (instance) (typha_cache_size{syncer="dpi"})</code><br /><code>max by (instance) (typha_cache_size{syncer="felix"})</code><br /><code>max by (instance) (typha_cache_size{syncer="node-status"})</code><br /><code>max by (instance) (typha_cache_size{syncer="tunnel-ip-allocation"})</code><br /><br />**Sum of all syncers**:<br /><code>sum by (instance)</code> <code>(typha_cache_size)</code><br /><br />**Largest syncer**:<br /><code>max by (instance)</code> <code>(typha_cache_size)</code> |

Reviewer: Don't need `max by (instance)` for the "Individual syncer values".

Given syncer is an internal name that has leaked out, might be worth saying "syncer (type) is Typha's internal name for a client (type)"

Author: Removed max instance and added note about syncer type.

> | Metric                           | **Individual syncer values**:<br /><code>max by (instance) (typha_cache_size{syncer="bgp"})</code> <br /><code>max by (instance) (typha_cache_size{syncer="dpi"})</code><br /><code>max by (instance) (typha_cache_size{syncer="felix"})</code><br /><code>max by (instance) (typha_cache_size{syncer="node-status"})</code><br /><code>max by (instance) (typha_cache_size{syncer="tunnel-ip-allocation"})</code><br /><br />**Sum of all syncers**:<br /><code>sum by (instance)</code> <code>(typha_cache_size)</code><br /><br />**Largest syncer**:<br /><code>max by (instance)</code> <code>(typha_cache_size)</code> |

Reviewer: > Sum of all syncers
> Largest syncer:

It's really the sum of all cache sizes.  Each syncer type has a cache and it's the cache that we're measuring, not the syncer.

Author: Added.

| Threshold breach recommendations | Check memory usage on Kubernetes nodes. Increase resources if needed, and rollout restart Typha(s) if needed. |
| Priority level                   | Recommended.                                                 |

## Typha cluster mesh metrics

The following metrics are applicable only if you have implemented [Cluster mesh](/multicluster/federation/overview.mdx).

Note that this metric requires a count syntax because you will have a copy of the metric per RemoteClusterConfiguration. As shown in the table, the value `2 = In Sync` reflects good connections.

```
remote_cluster_connection_status{cluster="foo"} = 2
remote_cluster_connection_status{cluster="bar"} = 2
remote_cluster_connection_status{cluster="baz"} = 1
```

### Remote cluster connections (in-sync)

| Remote cluster connections (in-sync) |                                                              |
| ------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| Metric                               | <code>count by (instance) (remote_cluster_connection_status == 2)</code> |

> | Explanation                          | This represents the number of remote cluster connections that are connected and in sync. Each remote cluster will report a *connection_status* value from the following list:<br />- 0 = Not Connected<br />- 1 = Connecting<br />- **2 = In Sync**<br />- 3 = Resync in Process<br />- 4 = Config Change Restart Required<br /><br />We suggest the **count** syntax because there will be one copy of *remote_cluster_connection_status* per cluster: - <code>remote_cluster_connection_status[cluster="foo"] = 2</code><br /><code>remote_cluster_connection_status[cluster="bar"] = 2</code><br /><code>remote_cluster_connection_status[cluster="baz"] = </code>'<br /><br />Counting the number of metrics with value **2** returns the number of **In Sync** clusters. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Explanation                          | This represents the number of remote cluster connections that are connected and in sync. Each remote cluster will report a *connection_status* value from the following list:<br />- 0 = Not Connected<br />- 1 = Connecting<br />- **2 = In Sync**<br />- 3 = Resync in Process<br />- 4 = Config Change Restart Required<br /><br />We suggest the **count** syntax because there will be one copy of *remote_cluster_connection_status* per cluster: - <code>remote_cluster_connection_status[cluster="foo"] = 2</code><br /><code>remote_cluster_connection_status[cluster="bar"] = 2</code><br /><code>remote_cluster_connection_status[cluster="baz"] = 2</code><br /><br />Counting the number of metrics with value **2** returns the number of **In Sync** clusters. |
```

Reviewer: How about using the presentation you used for Datastore cache size. I think that works well, using the pattern of "Here are the raw metrics, and here's how we recommend that you use them...":

> Individual metrics values:
>
> remote_cluster_connection_status[cluster="cluster-A"] = 2
> remote_cluster_connection_status[cluster="cluster-B"] = 2
>
> Count of number of in-sync clusters:
>
> count by (instance) (remote_cluster_connection_status == 2)

could even combine the in-sync and out-of-sync blocks.

| Threshold breach symptoms             | Felix is not getting updates from Typha. {{prodname}} network policies are out-of-sync. |
| Threshold breach recommendations      | Check Typha and Felix logs, and rollout restart Typha(s) if needed. |
| Priority level                        | Recommended.                                                 |

### Rebalanced client connections

| Rebalanced client connections    |                                                              |
| -------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |

> | Metric                           | <code>rate(typha_connections_dropped{$_rate_interval})</code> |

Reviewer: I don't think rate_interval is explained anywhere (and elsewhere we use `30s`)?  Will users know what this is?

Author: What is the rate_interval?

Author: @fasaxc Leon says: " I’m not 100% on what rate_interval is myself, I believe it’s what grafana believes the rate at which prometheus scrapes?"

| Example value                    | <code>{endpoint="metrics-port", instance="10.0.1.20:9093", job="typha-metrics-svc", namespace="calico-system", pod="calico-typha-6c6cc9fcf7-csbdl", service="typha-metrics-svc"}</code> |
| Explanation                      | Number of client connections dropped to rebalance and share the load across different Typhas. |
| Threshold value recommendation   | It is normal to see this value increasing sometimes. Investigate if connection dropped counters is rising constantly. If all Typhas are dropping connections because all Typhas believe they have too much load, this also warrants investigation. |

> | Threshold breach symptoms        | Dropping connections is rate limited so it should not affect the cluster as a whole. Typha clients, like Felix, will get dropped every sometimes (but not constantly), and could result in periodic delays to policy updates. |

Reviewer: "every sometimes"

Author: Fixed.

| Threshold breach recommendations | Ensure that the Kubernetes nodes have enough resources.      |
| Priority level                   | Optional.                                                    |

### 99 percentile client fall-behind

| 99 percentile client fall-behind |                                                              |
| -------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| Metric                           | <code>max by (instance) (typha_client_latency_secs{quantile='0.99'})</code> |

> | Example value | <code>{instance="10.0.1.20:9093"} NaN</code><br /><code>{instance="10.0.1.31:9093"} NaN</code> |

Reviewer: NaN means "not a number", suggests the query failed, possibly the cluster was so quiet that there have been no non-blocking reads and the calculation fails.  Annoying that prometheus treats percentiles that way.

You could just put a number in there like `0.1234`

Author: Changed NaN to 0.1234

| Threshold breach symptoms        | N/A                                                          |
| Threshold breach recommendations | N/A                                                          |
| Priority Level                   | Optional.                                                    |

## Felix cluster-state metrics

### CPU usage

| CPU usage                        |                                                              |
| -------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| Metric                           | <code>rate(process_cpu_seconds_total{30s}) \* 100</code>     |
| Example value                    | <code>{**endpoint**="metrics-port", instance="10.0.1.20:9091", **job**="felix-metrics-svc", namespace="calico-system", **pod**="calico-node-qzpkt", **service=**"felix-metrics-svc"}3.1197504199664072</code> |

> | Explanation                      | CPU in use by calico-node represented as a percentage of a core. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Explanation                      | CPU in use by Felix represented as a percentage of a core. |
```

Reviewer: calico node has a lot of components inside that also use memory, this metrics only counts
 Felix

| Threshold breach symptoms        | Unexpected maintained CPU usage could cause Felix to fall behind and could cause delays to policy updates. |
| Threshold breach recommendations | Check CPU usage on Kubernetes nodes. Increase resources if needed, rollout restart calico-node(s) if needed. |
| Priority level                   | Recommended.                                                 |

### Memory usage

| Memory usage                     |                                                              |
| -------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| Metric                           | <code>process_resident_memory_bytes</code>                   |
| Example value                    | <code>process_resident_memory_bytes{endpoint="metrics-port", **instance**="10.0.1.20:9091", **job**="felix-metrics-svc", **namespace**="calico-system", **pod**="calico-node-qzpkt", **service**="felix-metrics-svc"} 98996224</code> |

> | Explanation                      | Amount of memory in use by  calico-node.                     |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Explanation                      | Amount of memory in use by  Felix.                     |
```

| Threshold value recommendation   | Recommended to achieve a baseline first, then monitor for any unexpected increases from this baseline. Investigate if maintained CPU usage goes above 90% of what is available from the underlying node. |
| Threshold breach symptoms        | Unexpected, maintained, memory usage could cause Felix to fall behind and could cause delays to policy updates. |
| Threshold breach recommendations | Check memory usage on Kubernetes nodes. Increase resources if needed, rollout restart typha(s) if needed. |
| Priority level                   | Recommended.                                                 |

> ### Active hosts on each node

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Active hosts on each node
```

I think hosts should be endpoints?

Author: Updated to endpoint.

| Active hosts on each node        |                                                              |
| -------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| Metric                           | <code>felix_active_local_endpoints</code>                    |
| Example value                    | <code>felix_active_local_endpoints{**endpoint**="metrics-port", **instance**="10.0.1.30:9091", **job**="felix-metrics-svc", **namespace**="calico-system", **pod**="calico-node-6pcqm", **service**="felix-metrics-svc"} 36</code> |

> | Explanation                      | Number of active **pod-networked** pods, and HEPs, on this node. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Explanation                      | Number of active **pod-networked** pods, and host endpoints, on this node. |
```
Feel like we shouldn't abbreviate HEP in the docs, users might not know what it means?

| Priority level                   | Recommended.                                                 |

## Felix time-based metrics

### Dataplane apply time quantile 0.5/0.9/0.99

| Dataplane apply time quantile 0.5/0.9/0.99 |                                                              |
| ------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| Metric                                     | <code>felix_int_dataplane_apply_time_seconds{quantile="0.5"}</code><br /><code>felix_int_dataplane_apply_time_seconds{quantile="0.9"}</code><br /><code>felix_int_dataplane_apply_time_seconds{quantile="0.99"}</code> |
| Example value                              | <code>felix_int_dataplane_apply_time_seconds{quantile="0.5"}:felix_int_dataplane_apply_time_seconds{**endpoint**="metrics-port", **instance**="10.0.1.30:9091", **job**="felix-metrics-svc", **namespace**="calico-system", **pod**="calico-node-6pcqm", quantile="0.5", **service**="felix-metrics-svc"} 0.020859218</code> |
| Explanation                                | Time in seconds that it took to apply a dataplane update, viewed at the median, 90th percentile and 99th percentile. |

> | Threshold value recommendation             | Thresholds will vary depending on cluster size and rate of churn.  It is recommended that a baseline be set to determine a normal threshold value. Examples of what has been seen in the field: <br />- 3-node test cluster averaging 100ms <br />- 1000-node 15x federated cluster averaging 30s (potentially larger at start of business day). |

Reviewer: > 1000-node 15x federated cluster averaging 30

This is very high, even on such a large cluster, where di we get that number from?  At start of day, it can be that high but I don't think it averages that high.

Author: Leon will have to speak to this number...

Author: @fasaxc Leon says today: "I believe I got this info from Shaun a year or so ago when I wrote the initial doc on Felix metrics https://docs.google.com/document/d/1qBu0izBJrRjnmjy3cgO05OWvAK_P_eEm1SNw7CTvq5c/edit#heading=h.5iw8ovc3asoo

Author: Fixed.

- Threshold values for each metric depend on the cluster size and churn rate.
- Threshold recommendations are provided where possible, but because each cluster is different, and metrics can depend on cluster churn rate and scale. We recommend that you baseline the cluster to establish numbers that represent normal figures for your cluster.
- Metrics that start increasing rapidly from the baseline set need attention.

**Policy**
- [{{prodname}} policy metrics](#calico-enterprise-policy-metrics)

**Typha**
- [Typha general metrics](#typha-general-metrics)
- [Typha cluster mesh metrics](#typha-cluster-mesh-metrics)
- [Typha client metrics](#typha-client-metrics)
- [Typha cache internals](#typha-cache-internals)
- [Typha snapshot details](#typha-snapshot-details)

**Felix**
- [Felix cluster state metrics](#felix-cluster-state-metrics)
- [Felix error metrics](#felix-error-metrics)
- [Felix time-based metrics](#felix-time-based-metrics)

## Policy metrics

### Denied traffic

| Denied traffic                   |                                                              |
| -------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |

> | Metric                           | <code>calico_denied_packets<br>calico_denied_bytes</br></code> |

Reviewer 2: I think your problem lies entirely with the line breaks.
* In regular HTML, it's valid to use just `<br>`.
* Our Docusaurus setup is stricter. You must explicitly close the tag like this: `<br />`.
* You can't mark up content as a line break: `<br>calico_denied_bytes</br>` doesn't work. Either you have two line breaks on either side -- `<br />` -- or you do something else.

Author: Fixed.

| Explanation                      | Number connections handled by {{prodname}} policy rules.              |
| Threshold value recommendation   | This metric is similar to *Traffic per Rule* but this deals more with **flow** monitoring. This metric should usually be non-zero. A zero value indicates that the rule is not matching any packets and could be surplus to requirements. |
| Threshold breach symptoms        | N/A                                                          |
| Threshold breach recommendations | If this metrics consistently reports a zero value over an acceptable period of time, this policy rule can be considered for removal. |
| Priority Level                   | Optional.                                                    |

## Typha general metrics

### Datastore cache size

| Datastore cache size             |                                                              |
| -------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |

> | Metric                           | **Note**: Syncer (type) is Typha's internal name for a client (type).<br />**Individual syncer values**:<br /><code>(typha_cache_size{syncer="bgp"})</code> <br /><code>(typha_cache_size{syncer="dpi"})</code><br /><code>typha_cache_size{syncer="felix"})</code><br /><code>(typha_cache_size{syncer="node-status"})</code><br /><code> (typha_cache_size{syncer="tunnel-ip-allocation"})</code><br /><br />**Sum of all syncers**:<br />The sum of all cache sizes (each syncer type has a cache).<br /><code>sum by (instance)</code> <code>(typha_cache_size)</code><br /><br />**Largest syncer**:<br /><code>max by (instance)</code> <code>(typha_cache_size)</code> |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Metric                           | **Note**: Syncer (type) is Typha's internal name for a client (type).<br />**Individual syncer values**:<br /><code>typha_cache_size{syncer="bgp"}</code> <br /><code>typha_cache_size{syncer="dpi"}</code><br /><code>typha_cache_size{syncer="felix"}</code><br /><code>typha_cache_size{syncer="node-status"}</code><br /><code> typha_cache_size{syncer="tunnel-ip-allocation"}</code><br /><br />**Sum of all syncers**:<br />The sum of all cache sizes (each syncer type has a cache).<br /><code>sum by (instance)</code> <code>(typha_cache_size)</code><br /><br />**Largest syncer**:<br /><code>max by (instance)</code> <code>(typha_cache_size)</code> |
```

| Threshold breach recommendations | Check memory usage on Kubernetes nodes. Increase resources if needed, and rollout restart Typha(s) if needed. |
| Priority level                   | Recommended.                                                 |

## Typha cluster mesh metrics

The following metrics are applicable only if you have implemented [Cluster mesh](/multicluster/federation/overview.mdx).

Note that this metric requires a count syntax because you will have a copy of the metric per RemoteClusterConfiguration. As shown in the table, the value `2 = In Sync` reflects good connections.

```
remote_cluster_connection_status{cluster="foo"} = 2
remote_cluster_connection_status{cluster="bar"} = 2
remote_cluster_connection_status{cluster="baz"} = 1
```

### Remote cluster connections (in-sync)

| Remote cluster connections (in-sync) |                                                              |
| ------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| Metric                               | <code>count by (instance) (remote_cluster_connection_status == 2)</code> |

> | Explanation                          | This represents the number of remote cluster connections that are connected and in sync. Each remote cluster will report a *connection_status* value from the following list:<br />- 0 = Not Connected<br />- 1 = Connecting<br />- **2 = In Sync**<br />- 3 = Resync in Process<br />- 4 = Config Change Restart Required<br /><br />We suggest the **count** syntax because there will be one copy of *remote_cluster_connection_status* per cluster: - <code>remote_cluster_connection_status[cluster="foo"] = 2</code><br /><code>remote_cluster_connection_status[cluster="bar"] = 2</code><br /><code>remote_cluster_connection_status[cluster="baz"] = 2</code><br /><br />Counting the number of metrics with value **2** returns the number of **In Sync** clusters. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Explanation                          | This represents the number of remote cluster connections that are connected and in sync. Each remote cluster will report a *connection_status* value from the following list:<br />- 0 = Not Connected<br />- 1 = Connecting<br />- **2 = In Sync**<br />- 3 = Resync in Process<br />- 4 = Config Change Restart Required<br /><br />We suggest the **count** syntax because there will be one copy of *remote_cluster_connection_status* per cluster: <code>remote_cluster_connection_status[cluster="foo"] = 2</code><br /><code>remote_cluster_connection_status[cluster="bar"] = 2</code><br /><code>remote_cluster_connection_status[cluster="baz"] = 2</code><br /><br />Counting the number of metrics with value **2** returns the number of **In Sync** clusters. |
```
